---
title: "2020"
date: 2020-12-12T12:00:00-08:00
draft: false
tags: 
    - 2020
    - github
    - parcel.js
    - netlify
    - pagination
    - security
---

# TLDR; I survived 2020 and managed a few wins

What a year. What an incredible, awful, moving, emotional, massive year just to name a few adjectives. As of writing this post I am fortunate to have avoided catching COVID-19 through a combination of luck and social distancing and other precautions I have taken consistently since March. Vaccines are being rolled out across the world and can't come soon enough to as many people as possible.

I have had a _lot_ of time on the computer this year. I have put in a _lot_ of work as a distraction. Despite everything I managed a few wins this year. I figure I would focus on them to celebrate a little and in general and celebrate this blog and topics I may explore in the posts to come:

* Github Mentoring
   * Mentored six up and coming developers about improving their github and what I learned in kind.
* Paring down my personal website with Parcel.js
    * Took a Vue-CLI generator / PWA with a lot of dependencies and relative complexity down to one single index.html file built out with parcel.js
* Netlify
    * Learned how to use it and became a fan; will compare to past experiences with firebase
* Applying pagination
    * How I solved a performance problem in the field through applying some pagination and making use of existing PHP classes
* Full stack security
    * I cant really talk too much about what I did but I can talk in the abstract about making progress on security issues in the field

* Other Misc ideas for blogs not quite the same as wins but of general interest:
    * Review of Julia Evan's programming zines
    * Review of learnjavascript.online
    * Learning curl and postman
    * .editorconfig and save actions plugin in PHPStorm
    * Using termux - Shell/Git on your phone!
    * meta tag redirects using the refresh feature
    * Tachyons CSS library
    * About Pinboard, how I use it, its API and features / experience exporting
    * Sequel Pro review
    * Better Touch Tool review
    * Spaced repetition





